# Running the Reach
Use ```pip``` to install ```numpy```, ```plotly```, ```python-midi```, and ```pygame```. ```pygame``` doesn’t work with the python that comes normally with Apple devices; it only works with the versions of python downloaded form python.org. 

Additionally, a working Plotly account is required in order to view the chord diagrams that are produced for each song created in generate.py. If an account is not provided, then similar graphs can be viewed in the projects "sample graphs" folder.

To run the program, run ```generate.py```. The lyrics generator from the core has not been altered, but the music generator has been updated to produce songs with different instruments and layers. The user can choose various parameters of the songs to generate off of, or they can have the program randomly select those parameters. If ```pygame``` wasn't installed, after generating a new song, when the program asks if you want to hear the song that has just been generated, enter ```n``` for no. Newly generated songs can be found in the folder "midi." Sample songs that were previously generated can also be found in that folder.

The Chord diagrams that are produced after each run of generate.py depict the frequency of each note within the song. While the raw data of this graph could be displayed on something much simpiler such as a bar graph, the chord diagram format can act as a visual indicator for the quality of the music in that diagrams that are more difficult to read tend to be of a song of lower quality. To access these graphs after each run, the user must have a working plotly account. If not, sample graphs can be found in the folder titled "Sample Graphs."

The sample graphs will be generated by running ```auto_hist.py``` and ```pop_hist.py```, which can be found in the folder "graphs." Running them will open a webpage on your browser showing the graphs. ```auto_hist.py``` generates a graph of high frequency words used by the lyrics generator and ```pop_hist.py``` generates a graph of the most high frequency words actually used by the Beatles. Running ```output_lyrics.py``` will create ```lyrics.txt``` or edit the existing file, which is the sample data used in ```auto_hist.py```. Sample graphs from these programs can be found in the folder "Sample Graphs."


# Running the Core
Run ```generate.py```.

# Creative AI Project

**Creative AI** is about using artificial intelligence to automatically generate lyrics and music using datasets of your choice.

Welcome to the repository! If you have questions, please check here:

- <a href="https://youtu.be/Z46LvHwgygs?list=PL2BYDiR6uDOJzYCJ7QuuQz-hWvQeYN5Nx" target="_blank">Link to generated lyrics demo</a>

- <a href="https://youtu.be/RrHrRqZ3pUM?list=PL2BYDiR6uDOJzYCJ7QuuQz-hWvQeYN5Nx" target="_blank">Link to generated music demo</a>

- <a href="https://github.com/eecs183/creative-ai/wiki" target="_blank">Link to specification</a>

Here are a few notes to get you started:

* Don't touch the __init__.py files. These are necessary to your project.

* Things will be easier if you read the spec first and follow the given function order.

* Make sure you have ```pip``` installed so you download pysynth.

* Remember to update this file to describe your finished Final Project.

Have fun on the project!
